>> Scott Moss: Okay, let's enable this.
So let's go to our code,
we're gonna make API route.
So API, you can get rid of this hello one,
doesn't do anything,
make a new folder and
app/api, called draft.
Make a file in there called route.ts.
And what we wanna do, actually,
I forgot we need to add our secret.
So let's go back to our settings,
our content preview.
Let's click on the one that we made.
We need to put our secret here,
so I'm gonna put a query string.
I'm gonna say, I don't know, secret, and
set that equal to whatever your secret
was in your environment variable.
So I'm gonna grab mine, and this is use
defined, you can put whatever you want.
I'm just gonna put this, so there we go,
this way we know it came from contentful.
So we got that.
>> Scott Moss: And basically the strategy
is, I'll walk you through it,
cuz it sounds more complicated
than it actually is.
>> Scott Moss: Basically, the strategy is,
we're gonna get the secret
from the params.
If you don't have a secret, who are you?
Get out of here.
So we're gonna say no.
If the secret doesn't equal the secret
we have in our environment variable,
then also,
did we type that in on CONTENTFUL wrong.
Or does someone know that we need a seeker
and they're just guessing at this point,
either way, that's terrifying.
And then lastly, you might have
some logic here where if you added
some of those interpolated values
on the URL to get this hero ID,
get this entry ID, you would use some
server side queries to get that.
But in our case,
our hero is gonna to be on the homepage,
so we just need to just
redirect to the homepage.
And then we just need to tell
Contentful on that server component
to use previews and then we should be
good, but not before enabling draft mode.
So let's do that.
So here we will go to our route,
that's right.
So we'll say,
const GET =() a function export,
or excuse, just export good, there we go.
This is gonna be async or,
I don't think any
spacing there actually,
looking at a request,
this is a type NextRequest
from next/server,
and then we will get
the searchParams from a new URL.
And we'll pass in request.url.
We'll get the searchParams.
And then we can say,
secret = searchParams.get(secret),
that's the parameter we put
on the end of the URL, or
at least that's what I
put on the end of my URL.
In my preview settings in Contentful,
I had a query string, secret = mySecret,
whatever your variable was,
that's what you put here.
So I'm going to get my secret.
I'm gonna say, if not secrets,
then return new Response.
>> Scott Moss: I do a status on here.
New Response().status?
No, that's not it.
It's just the second argument, okay.
So we'll say, No, ,
you didn't send the right thing.
If secret does not equal
process.env.whatever that thing is,
CONTENTFUL_PREVIEW_SECRET,
>> Scott Moss: Then it's very similar.
Just different status of, all right, you
said the right thing, but it's not right.
So you got that.
>> Scott Moss: And then the last thing
we need to do is enable draftMode,
so we can get draftMode from
the Next.js import from next headers.
Which basically just, it really is
just a cookie that sets like draft,
you don't even really need to use it,
you can do it yourself.
You can just set any cookie that you want,
give it a value to true, look for
that cookie on the other side, and then
pass it into your server side queries.
But we'll get it from next headers.
DraftMode, so we'll say
draftMode().enable(), like this.
And then we will redirect
from Next Navigation to Home.
>> Scott Moss: And we're going home
because that's where the hero page is, or
the hero section is.
>> Scott Moss: You wanna redirect the user
to where the content they're clicking
preview on would be rendered so
they can actually see that.
So you can tell it can get pretty
complicated if you have some content
hidden behind an interaction.
So you redirect them there but
you gotta click this drop down and
click this button and
then they'll see the content.
So that can't be helped,
but it works pretty good.
This is bare minimum this is bare minimum.
And this is for the really savvy content
creators that understand technology.
For people who are just pure content,
this is probably not enough for them,
they're gonna need some like Squarespace
where they can click on the website and
edit it in line and do stuff like that.
This isn't gonna be good enough for
them, in my experience,
as someone who's built this and
tried to sell it.
>> Speaker 1: Because even if there's
a sub page that has a hero, right?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, exactly, exactly,
because they don't know exactly, like,
even if you bring them to the page,
they still have hard time figuring out
where on the page this thing actually is.
Whereas an editor where you can click and
edit, it makes sense,
it shows you borders when you click on it,
it's just more intuitive.
So just,
it has to be somewhat really savvy.
>> Speaker 1: Like the mental model.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, exactly.
So, this is like bare minimum.
Okay, so we got that, so let's test
that at least it redirects, right?
Let's test that part.
So let's go back to here, open this tab.
>> Scott Moss: Cool, it redirects.
So that means the secret works,
the cookie, all that stuff works,
let's check to see if our cookie's there.
So I'm gonna go to Application,
I'm gonna go to Cookies.
And yeah, so it's actually this
cookie right here, prerender_bypass,
that's the draftMode cookie,
it's just prerender_bypass.
Cuz that's what the draftMode does,
it bypasses the prerender.
Let's actually get the official
>> Scott Moss: Thing
from Next.js on what draftMode does.
So basically,
static rendering is useful for
your pages,
when you fetch data from a headless CMS.
However, it's not ideal when you're
writing a draft on your CMS and
you wanna view the draft
immediately on your page.
You want Next.js to render these pages at
request time instead of build time and
fetch the draft content instead
of the published content.
You'd want Next.js to switch
to dynamic rendering only for
this specific case, yeah.
Because all of our pages are going
to be rendered statically.
If you want to say, I mean,
actually, can you just be dynamic,
which basically means don't cache this, go
and fetch the new one every single time.
Be dynamic as if I used cookies,
as if I used headers,
as if I said no cache, basically.
So, that's what it's gonna do.
So the re-rendering or
the redirecting works, now what we need to
do is if we go to our hero,
>> Scott Moss: We can get the draft mode
in here, so
we can say draftMode from next/headers and
then we can say, we need to make
this function, getContentForHero.
Take in an optional draft.
So we'll say isDraft, and
this can be a boolean.
All right, I'll just say,
default to false actually.
So it'll say isDraft, and
then what we need to do if it is a draft,
we need to pass that in as
an argument to our GraphQL query.
And then also here, because this content
GraphQL takes in a preview true or
false, so it can switch with
authorization token it has.
Because you cannot access preview content
with the access token, you have to use
the CONTENTFUL_PREVIEW_ACCESS_TOKEN
to access preview content.
So let's fix that.
So there are a couple ways
to pass it in with GraphQL.
There's the right way,
there's the way we're gonna do it.
So, the way that we're gonna do it [LAUGH]
is we're just gonna just skip this and
we're just going to go straight here.
And we're just gonna say, so luckily for
us, if we go, just to show you,
and also just to make sure I'm not insane,
every query from Contentful
should take in a preview like this,
and it could be true or false.
So every single query takes in a preview,
true or false.
So what that enables us
to do is to go here and
say, okay, preview, cool, and
then we can interpolate and say, isDraft.
So if isDraft, then we want true and
double quotes and
false if not in double quotes.
It has to be that,
has to be the double quotes.
Graphical syntax,
this has to be in double quotes.
>> Scott Moss: So we got that, and
then down here, we can say preview.
It's gonna be bound to isDraft.
>> Scott Moss: Cool, so now we have that.
So this will enable us to
get the draft content.
>> Scott Moss: If we set it up right.
Who knows?
You can also pass this all
the way down cuz like,
all right, it'll get these items,
these will be draft but then like,
what if you want to get
the draft version of these two?
So you could also come down here and
say, yeah, I'll do the same thing,
and it cascades, you'd have to do
it that way as well, for relations.
Okay, so, let's make sure nothing broke,
first of all.
Let's go here.
Let's go Home.
Nothing seems to be broken there,
let's go back to our CMS.
That's cool, let's open this up again.
That seems to be cool.
Okay, nothing seems to have broke,
I think our cookie is still set.
>> Scott Moss: It is, okay, and
let's actually make a draft.
>> Scott Moss: Which, you don't do
anything to make a draft, you just,
you know you have a draft
when it says Publish Changes,
that's how you know you have a draft.
If didn't have a draft,
it would have said it was published.
So we have a draft, this is my draft.
If I want to preview this,
if we set this up,
this should do it, but
looks like it didn't.
Let's see
>> Scott Moss: Let's check out if,
wait, I didn't pass it in, did I?
Yeah, I guess we gotta do that.
So let's go here and we'll say,
isDraft = draftMode.isEnabled, like that.
So let me say isDraft, there we go.
And it showed up immediately,
as soon as I hit Save.
So let's just go through it all again.
So we go here, here's our draft.
Let's just change it again.
>> Scott Moss: Kinda draft here.
Wait for it to save, it just saved.
Open this up, and it didn't show that one,
it's showing the previous one.
So maybe it didn't save yet,
let's give it some time, I guess.
>> Scott Moss: There it is,
I guess it just takes a minute for
Contentful's preview or
draft content that goes to their CDN,
I guess I didn't expect
the consequence to click that quick.
So it just took a minute, but areas,
so now you can see the draft.
Typically what I would do is,
when I detect that you're in draft mode,
I'll add a UI somewhere on the app.
I'll put a border or
something, or a button or
something that says,
you are in preview mode, this is not live.
Because right now we're doing
this on a local host, but
you're gonna set this up
on the production app.
The concept people aren't gonna run
a local host version of a website.
So the URL that we put in for the preview
would have been yourwebsite.com/api/draft.
It would have been local host.
So just to let them know that I
would put a button there that says,
you are in draft, and I'll put another
button next to it that when you click it,
it clears the cookie to say, okay, cool,
I don't look at the draft anymore.
And that's the experience
that you wanna show.
And to clear the cookie, it's pretty
simple, you just make another route,
and it just calls draftMode().disable().
That's it,
you just make a route that does that.
That's it, and that clears the clicker.
So, put a button on your page that makes
a call to this and clears the cookie.